entries/about.md, before:

---
title: About
publish_date: June 18, 2016
special: true
---

<img width=40% align=right src="/uploads/calver_cal_med.png">

CalVer is a software versioning convention based on calendar dates of
project releases, support schedules, and compatibility, instead of
arbitrary numbers. There are [many benefits][designing_a_version] to
this approach, and [multiple variations][calver_overview] to custom
fit all projects.

Calendar versioning has a long history, but CalVer itself was first
publicly released in 2016. The initial version was written by
[Mahmoud Hashemi][mahmoud], with thanks to [Stephen LaPorte][stephen],
[Mark Williams][mark], [Glyph Lefkowitz][glyph],
[Amber Brown][hawkowl], and [Hynek Schlawack][hynek].

If you have questions, comments, issues, or enhancements, please feel
free to [open an issue on the CalVer GitHub][issue].

This site generated with [Chert][chert] and [Python][python].

[designing_a_version]: http://sedimental.org/designing_a_version.html
[calver_overview]: /overview.html

[mahmoud]: http://sedimental.org
[stephen]: https://twitter.com/sklaporte
[mark]: https://enotuniq.org/
[glyph]: https://twitter.com/glyph
[hawkowl]: https://github.com/hawkowl
[hynek]: https://twitter.com/hynek

[issue]: https://github.com/mahmoud/calver/issues

[chert]: https://github.com/mahmoud/chert
[python]: http://python.org

Commit message:

bunch of minor adjustments in preparation for publishing the chinese translation

entries/about.md, after:

---
title: About
publish_date: May 30, 2020
orig_publish_date: June 18, 2016
special: true
---

<img width=40% align=right src="/uploads/calver_cal_med.png">

CalVer is a software versioning convention based on calendar dates of
project releases, support schedules, and compatibility, instead of
arbitrary numbers. There are [many benefits][designing_a_version] to
this approach, and [multiple variations][calver_overview] to custom
fit all projects.

Calendar versioning has a long history, but CalVer itself was first
publicly released in 2016. The initial version was written by
[Mahmoud Hashemi][mahmoud], with thanks to [Stephen LaPorte][stephen],
[Mark Williams][mark], [Glyph Lefkowitz][glyph],
[Amber Brown][hawkowl], and [Hynek Schlawack][hynek].

Big thanks to [狂飙][networm] for the initial Chinese
([中文](/overview_zhcn.html)) translation.

If you have questions, comments, issues, or enhancements, please feel
free to [open an issue on the CalVer GitHub][issue].

This site generated with [Chert][chert] and [Python][python].

[designing_a_version]: https://sedimental.org/designing_a_version.html
[calver_overview]: /overview.html

[mahmoud]: https://sedimental.org
[networm]: https://github.com/networm
[stephen]: https://twitter.com/sklaporte
[mark]: https://enotuniq.org/
[glyph]: https://twitter.com/glyph
[hawkowl]: https://github.com/hawkowl
[hynek]: https://twitter.com/hynek

[issue]: https://github.com/mahmoud/calver/issues

[chert]: https://github.com/mahmoud/chert
[python]: http://python.org
